Documentation (#9)
Axstoria/Axstoria-Software: Docs/testing_policy.md

# Workflow
Every tests has to be written before the implementation of the functionnality and has to be updated if obsolete.

## Branching & CI

The branching of the project will be done as follow :

>     functionnality -> PR -> feature -> PR -> dev -> realease PR -> main Vx.x

Author: Just a way to express the versionning,  like V5.6, didn't really knew how to write it in the moment

>     functionnality -> PR -> feature -> PR -> dev -> realease PR -> main Vx.x

Author: Looking back does Vx.y make more sense?

In the functionnality case :

- First the developper that wrote the new functionnality will write his automated test with the help of the other dev that worked on this particular feature
- If the automated test work on all cases then he can create his pull request 
- If the automated test could not test everything or is judged as not complete then  colleague working on the same or similar feature (can be the same person that helped with the test writing) will do the following :
	- Test each new functionnality as part of the project
	- Test each functionnality of the feature in order of implementation
	- Test of the main functionnalities in the project outside this feature
- If each tests is a success then you can validate the pull request and implement the new functionnality in the feature branch.

In the case of the integration of the feature  : 
- This time one or two devs from a different feature will do the following :
	- Test the implementation of the feature and its functionnalities
	- Test each feature related to the tested one to verify  that the implementation works

> 	- Test finally the precedent feature to ensure that nothing went array due to the new functionnalities.

Author: No i meant awry but idk why I wrote it terribly wrong

### What to test?
Every functionnality and features inside the game are concerned by the integration tests and must be done with the utmost care.

### Code Coverage

The Code Coverage for Integration tests should aimed to be at 80% for all modules.

## End-to-end test
End-to-end test will be used for the versionning of the software between the dev and main branch.

### Environment
The end to end testing will be done in the Unity play mode for the early developpement test but preferably and for all the developpement the game needs to be compiled and tested as a standalone .exe binary.

### Process

> The test will be done in 2 part, first the developpers will test the version to verify that everything is stable and up-to-date by doing manual tests. Then once we're sure that everything is up to standards the version will be put on the main branch and the binary will be made accessible to our group of 20 testers, along with a notification of the new functionnalities, the fixes and changes made to the project.  They will have complete access to the binary until the next version and will report at any moment their feelings about the game, the bug and the part to enhance. Those reports will be then added to the list of issues to adress in the kaban and a part of the team will be dedicated to correct that for the next version, while the rest works on the new functionnalities.

Reviewer: "[...] list of issues to ***address*** in the ***kanban*** [...]" : I think you meant Kanban?

### What to test?
As said precedently, the binary as a whole will be tested and how user friendly it is. Every component, feature and functionnality will be tested by the players to make sure everything runs smoothly and give them an optimal experience.

## Performance test
### Environment
Performance test will be done using the **Unity Profiler** which allows us to receive game metrics during test and developpement in the Unity Editor.

### Process
During each versionning, in the end-to-end tests made by developpers, a full performance test will be conducted to make sure the game is enjoyable for the players.
And devs are encourage to keep the profiler open in a tab when working in the editors to make sure that the game metrics doesn't suddenly change with the modification or addition of a functionnality.

### What to test?

> At least 3 type of tests will be made and automatized, but more can get added if the need arise :

Reviewer: "[...] if the need ***arises***" : need is singular so we need an -s at the end of "arises"

- **Load tests**: Determines how the game performs when subjected to heavy workloads

> -   **Stress tests**: Evaluates how the game handles unexpected situations, such as sudden increases in player activity

Reviewer: "[...] sudden ***increase*** [...]" : "increase" is not a verb so no -s

They are not to be executed at runtime as they have to be isolated and their purpose is to verify that each low level module by itself will work as intended through all case of execution. So the tests will be done with truncated fixed value to analyze the behavior of the module.

### Code Coverage

The Code Coverage for Unit tests should aim to be at 70% for non graphical modules.

## Integration test

Integration tests will be done in one of the two cases :

- A functionnality is complete and can be merged into a feature
- A feature is complete and can be merged into the Dev branch until a new release

### Environment

The integration tests are to be done on Unity first by using **UTF** (Unity Test Framework) to do automated test on a full sequence of events then by at least one of the developpers, in test mode and play mode, trying out the new functionnalities and features as a user.

### Process

The automated tests must cover in a system the new functionnality and feature as a whole, testing multiple case of event, with the possibility of creating sub-systems to prevent and identify errors in a particular implementation.

In the functionnality case :

> - First the developper that wrote the new functionnality will write his automated test with the help of the other dev that worked on this particular feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- First the developper that wrote the new functionnality will write his automated tests with the help of the other devs that worked on this particular feature
```

> - If the automated test work on all cases then he can create his pull request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the automated tests work on all cases then he can create his pull request
```

> - If the automated test could not test everything or is judged as not complete then  colleague working on the same or similar feature (can be the same person that helped with the test writing) will do the following :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the automated tests could not test everything or are judged as not complete then colleague working on the same or similar feature (can be the same person that helped with the test writing) will do the following :
```

  - Test of the main functionnalities in the project outside this feature
- If each test is a success then you can validate the pull request and implement the new functionnality in the feature branch.

In the case of the integration of the feature  :

- This time one or two devs from a different feature will do the following :
  - Test the implementation of the feature and its functionnalities
  - Test each feature related to the tested one to verify  that the implementation works
  - Test finally the precedent feature to ensure that nothing went awry due to the new functionnalities.

### What to test?

Every functionnality and features inside the game are concerned by the integration tests and must be done with the utmost care.

### Code Coverage

The Code Coverage for Integration tests should aim to be at 80% for all modules.

## End-to-end test

End-to-end test will be used for the versionning of the software between the dev and main branch.

### Environment

The end to end testing will be done in the Unity play mode for the early developpement test but preferably and for all the developpement the game needs to be compiled and tested as a standalone .exe binary.

### Process

> The test will be done in 2 part, first the developpers will test the version to verify that everything is stable and up-to-date by doing manual tests. Then once we're sure that everything is up to standards the version will be put on the main branch and the binary will be made accessible to our group of 20 testers, along with a notification of the new functionnalities, the fixes and changes made to the project.  They will have complete access to the binary until the next version and will report at any moment their feelings about the game, the bug and the part to enhance. Those reports will be then added to the list of issues to address in the Kanban and a part of the team will be dedicated to correct that for the next version, while the rest works on the new functionnalities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The test will be done in 2 parts, first the developpers will test the version to verify that everything is stable and up-to-date by doing manual tests. Then once we're sure that everything is up to standards the version will be put on the main branch and the binary will be made accessible to our group of 20 testers, along with a notification of the new functionnalities, the fixes and changes made to the project.  They will have complete access to the binary until the next version and will report at any moment their feelings about the game, the bugs and the parts to enhance. These reports will be then added to the list of issues to address in the Kanban and a part of the team will be dedicated to correct that for the next version, while the rest works on the new functionnalities.
```

### What to test?

> As said precedently, the binary as a whole will be tested and how user friendly it is. Every component, feature and functionnality will be tested by the players to make sure everything runs smoothly and give them an optimal experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As said precedently, the binary as a whole will be tested and how user friendly it is. Every component, feature and functionnality will be tested by the players to make sure everything runs smoothly and gives them an optimal experience.
```
